
# How to Decrypt Faust Ransomware
Faust ransomware is a new variant of the Phobos ransomware family. It encrypts VMware ESXi, servers, Windows servers, and personal computers by attacking them via phishing emails, malicious attachments, and RDP exploits. Moreover, hackers also target victims by exploiting unpatched vulnerabilities. The Faust ransomware uses very advanced algorithms, such as AES-256 combined with RSA-1024 asymmetric encryption, to encrypt data.  
You can purchase decryptor by contacting us on our WhatsApp: +447706666376
https://wa.me/447706666376

Faust ransomware uses the .faust extension at the end of each file, for example, sample.docx.id[b27937-4830].[antich154@privatemail.com].faust. In addition, this ransomware generates two ransom notes after encrypting the files. 

The ransom notes are info.hta and info.txt. You can see the ransom note in different folders on your system.

The ransom note contains contacts for cybercriminals and some more information about the ransomware. In Faust’s case, the criminal uses different emails, such as antich154@privatemail.com and others. If you are infected by this ransomware, then you should follow the steps given below to protect your data and decrypt the ransomware.

Steps To Take After The Faust Ransomware Attack
Isolate your network.
This is the very first step that you should take after an Faust ransomware attack. First of all, turn off all of your computers by unplugging the power cables, and then turn off the internet access to all of your computers.

Install antivirus and scan your system
This is the second step that you should take after the ransomware attack. You should scan all of your network and computers with a good antivirus program, such as Avast antivirus or Eset Nod32 antivirus. Scanning will help you remove viruses from your computer. Sometimes, ransomware also contains silent miners and stealers. Silent miners are used to mine crypto with the power of your system, and it results in the slowdown of computers. 

Look for backups and restore the data
The next step is that you should check your backup files. If your files are not encrypted, then you can restore your data from the latest backup. Moreover, you can also look at offline backups available in your database.

Do not negotiate with the cyber criminals
You should never contact the attackers to get the decryptor or any kind of help. It helps them do more attacks in the future. In addition, just delete all the ransom notes and remove malware from your computers.

Contact Phobos Decryptor.
This is an optional step that you can take if you want to recover your data from the Faust ransomware. You can reach us by email at phobosdecryptorofficial@gmail.com or on our official WhatsApp number: [wa.me/+447706666376]. We’ll help you to recover your data.

How to decrypt Faust Ransomware with the help of Phobos Decryptor?
To decrypt the Faust ransomware, you need to follow some easy steps. First of all, open the Phobos decryptor in your system, copy your personal ID, paste it into the decryptor, and click on decrypt files. It will start decrypting the files with the help of online servers to bypass private keys and encryptions. That’s all. You can watch the video given below.


More about Faust Ransomware
Here is more information about Faust ransomware and how it attacks victims and encrypts data.

How Does Faust Ransomware Attack?
Entry Point: Firstly, it’s important to understand and identify the ransom attack. Faust ransomware spreads through various methods, like phishing emails, exploit kits, malware attachments, and other phishing websites. They also use some sort of social tactics to trap users from downloading and saving ransomware files on their drives.
Program Activation: After the malicious file is saved and executed in the user’s system, Faust ransomware starts performing malicious activities, which include changes like interfering with system settings and creating scheduled tasks.
Data Encryption: When the user’s system gets infected, Faust ransomware starts targeting precise files like documents, images, videos, and databases. They use very strong mechanisms like AES or RSA to encrypt victims’ files and make the files appear inaccessible to the victim.
Ransom Note: Once all the data of the victim gets encrypted, Faust ransomware commonly generates ransom notes in different forms, like text files or HTML pop-ups. These ransom notes are placed on desktops or folders, which are attacked by the ransomware. In these ransom notes, they ask for a huge amount and give instructions about how we can pay them. These payments contain high amounts of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum, and after paying them, we will get a decryption key from the attackers.
Raas (Ransomware as a Service) Model: For communication, Faust Ransomware uses remote commands and controls the servers that are activated by the attackers. This communication eases the key exchange, payment instructions for ransom, and progress updates for encryption. Traffic between these C2 servers can be monitored for detection and analysis.
Paying the attackers for Data Decryption: The attackers demand a high amount of ransom in cryptocurrency to provide a decryption key or tool to release the victim’s files. However, if a victim decides to pay the ransom amount, there is no assurance that the attackers will provide the key or tool for the decryption.
How can we prevent Faust Ransomware in the future?
Keep backing up your data: Make sure to have an updated backup of all your data. This data should be stored on offline drives or clouds in a secure way. These updated data backups can be very helpful in recovering your data in case of any ransom attack in the future without paying them.

Use updated antivirus: Always use updated Antivirus on your system. These will help you to remain alert to threats, detect malware, and reduce ransom attacks in the future. 

Use the Secure Identification Method: Apply strong and unique passwords and always use multi-factor authentication methods. These steps will help you enhance your system and account security.

Always avoid paying ransom: Never try to negotiate with the ransomware attackers and pay them for ransom. There is no assurance that they will provide us with the decryption key or not attack us in the future after paying them.

Avoid Suspicious Links and Attachments: Don’t click on suspicious links or attachments, because they can contain malware and infect your system. Always avoid spam emails and messages, as they can result in unexpected outcomes.

Take quick action: In case you find any suspect of a ransom attack, then disconnect your system from the internet and try to connect with cyber security professionals or your security team ASAP. Your quick actions can result in early recovery from ransom without paying them.

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Why can’t we open files affected by Faust’s ransomware?
After the ransom attack, our files get encrypted and can’t be opened unless we decrypt them by using decryption tools.

Why was my computer hacked, and all my files were encrypted?
Oftentimes, when we click on phishing emails, download applications from unknown sources, or download cracked files from non-authenticated browsers, ransomware enters our system from these resources. They aim to trap people by spreading ransomware on their systems.

Can paying ransom attackers help me decrypt my files?
There is no guarantee that after paying them their desired ransom, they will provide us with the decryption tool and prevent attacking us in the future. So, always try to approach cybersecurity professionals; they can help you provide the easiest and most reliable solution.

Conclusion:
In this article, we have deeply covered all the steps for the decryption of Faust ransomware. Following the recommended steps above, like isolating our networks, installing updated anti-viruses, scanning our system deeply, looking up backups in our system, and restoring our data from there, can help us decrypt our files and control the ransom attack.

Moreover, we have also discussed not negotiating with the cybercriminals and instead opting out of contacting the Phobos Decryptor team. By using our Phobos decryptor, you can decrypt all your files easily. Keep your system and software updated to reduce ransom attacks further in the future.
